---
title: Spelling
description: Spelling
layout: ../layouts/MainLayout.astro
---

**Among**, not amongst

**Antisocial** is one word. When quoting the Act (ASBA), Order (ASBO), or referring to the Government’s ASB Unit, the word has a hyphen: Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003, Anti-social Behaviour Order, Anti-social Behaviour Unit.

The Scottish Act has no hyphen: Antisocial Behaviour Act (Scotland).

**Bed and breakfasts** – use this the first time you refer to them, then switch to B&Bs.

**Case** **law** (two words), but caseload and caseworker.

**Dependent or dependant**

Dependent is the adjective, and dependant is the noun (ie referring to the person who is dependent).

**e-card**

**email**

**\-ed or -t?** We use -t. Example: spelt, not spelled; learnt, not learned.

**\-er and -or** Where there are two ending options for a word, always use the English ending of -er rather than the American one -or. Example: adviser, not advisor (though advisory).

**Factsheet** is one word.

**Flowchart** is one word.

**Focused**, not focussed.

**Homeowner**, one word, no hyphen.

**Home ownership**, two words, no hyphen.

**Ibid.** Short for ‘ibidem’, which means ‘in the same place’. Used when authors are repeatedly citing the same source.

**ID** is fine, ie photo ID.

**internet** takes an initial lower case, as does intranet.

**Judgement** has an e in, except when it is a court judgment.

**Liaise**

**License** is the verb; licence and licensee are the nouns. Examples: driver’s licence, a licensed driver.

**Multilingual** is one word.

**Newsletter**

**No one** is two words (unlike someone).

**OK**, not okay or ok.

**Online**

**On to** is two words, except where you are describing the act of moving physically onto something. Example: ‘They moved on to the next agenda item.’ ‘They walked onto the sand.’ ‘They walked on to the beach.’

**Outreach**

**Practise** is the verb; practice is the noun. Example: ‘a doctor’s practice’, ‘he was practising medicine.’

**Program** is for computers. Programme applies to everything else.

**Right to Buy** (when referring to scheme itself), but lower case ‘right to buy’ (when referring to a person’s right to buy).

**‘Try to’**, not ‘try and’.

**Wallchart** is one word.

**Website** is one word, as are email and online. Web page is two words. Email, internet, intranet, web and website are all lower case.

**While**, not whilst.

**will**, in the case of leaving a legacy, is lower case.

---

### Speak the same language using [our digital glossary](Shelter%27s-digital-glossary_712245258.html)

## Contact us

Have a question or comment? Found a bug? Or maybe you’d like to contribute to the framework? [Use our contact form](https://england.shelter.org.uk/contact_us_about_the_digital_framework) to get in touch.
